README.md, before:

# Arabic Text Summarization

# 1 - Automatic text summarization
### 1.1 - Introduction
Over the beyond decades, the want to summarize files has routinely been regarded to boom because of the big mass of online texts consisting of news, scholarly articles, and so on. Assigning the summarization mission to a gadget has come to be a pressing want to extract and generate key statistics from the massive quantity of textual content available. Text summarization has been a place of excessive study for the beyond 50 years, specifically for generally used languages and comparatively easy grammar consisting of English. However, the Arabic language did now no longer get hold of an awful lot of interest because of its complexity grammatically and morphologically, etc. Arabic gives researchers and builders of the Natural Language Process (NLP) program enormous demanding situations because of its difficulties.

It is important to assess the effectiveness of the summaries generated via way of means of the gadget to decide the quantity of its reliability. There are methods, both human evaluation, that is, guide evaluation, which isn't a sensible approach withinside the case of big facts sets, or routinely the usage of the ROUGE metric, which is the only one that we undertake in this study.

## 1.2 - NLP
### 1.2.1 - Problem definition
We all know that machines cannot understand human languages such as speeches, texts, or even letters, so converting these texts into machine-understandable format has become a crucial goal to enable them to perform useful tasks. The domain of study that concentrates on enabling computers to intelligently process human languages is termed Natural Language Processing or NLP for short. It is a multi-speciality field that com- bines artificial intelligence, computing science, cognitive science, information processing, and linguistics. Natural language processing appeared to facilitate the work of the user and satisfy the desire to communicate with the computer in a natural language. 

NLP is divided into two parts: 

![image](https://github.com/AbdelrahmanShahrour/Arabic-Summarization/blob/main/images/38891nlg.png)

Natural Language Understanding (NLU) and Natural Language Generation (NLG). 

1.2.1.1 - Natural Language Understanding (NLU) is the part of natural language processing that helps computers understand and interpret natural language as human beings do. It is used for machine translation, question answering, and many others. 

1.2.1.2 - Natural Language Generation (NLG) is a component of natural language processing, which is the process of creating meaningful text in the form of a natural language from an internal representation. It can be considered the opposite of natural language understanding. NLG systems offer an important role in text summarization, machine translation, and dialogue systems.
## [Bibliography : Natural language processing: state of the art, current trends and challenges](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s11042-022-13428-4)
### 1.2.2 - Application of NLP
1.2.2.1 - Machine translation (MT): Natural language processing is at the heart of MT because it uses machines to automatically translate the natural language (from one language to another). The challenge of machine translation is not to translate word for word, but to use grammar and tense to preserve the true meaning of the sentence

1.2.2.2 - Question answering (QA): Question answering is one of the most important tasks in natural language processing (NLP), where a system takes a natural language question as input and returns a textual answer or answer paragraph.

1.2.2.3 - Sentiment Analysis (SA): The field of sentiment analysis also called opinion mining hasreceived a lot of focus from NLP. It is the field of analyzing people’s opinions, sentiments, evaluations, and reviews to determine the positive or negative orientation of user-generated texts about entities such as products, services, and others.
## [Bibliography : Sentiment Analysis and Opinion Mining ](https://www.cs.uic.edu/~liub/FBS/SentimentAnalysis-and-OpinionMining.pdf)

1.2.2.4 - Summarization: It is the process of conveying the most important information from a source (or sources) to produce a condensed version. This task took advantage of the NLP to reformulate the generated summary into a more coherent text.

## 1.3 - Arabic language and its challenges
The Arabic language is an important language as it is the language of the Holy "Al Qur’an Al Karem" and one of the official languages in the United Nations and 24 countries and as it is the mother tongue of more than 460 million people.
### 1.3.1 - Arabic language
Before getting into the depth of the Arabic language, we will first introduce the language.

Arabic is the most widely spoken Semitic language, and it is the natively spoken medium of communication for everyday life. However, the term “Arabic language” is frequently used to refer to Modern Standard Arabic (MSA) and its dialects as a whole. The media and education use MSA as their primary written language [34]. Arabic is written from right to left using the 28-character Arabic alphabet. It is written in a cursive way, And the shape of each letter changes according to its position at the beginning of the word. middle, or end, but it does not contain capital letters. As for vowels, it can be said that They are two types: long letters and diacritics.

Before getting into the depth of the Arabic language, we will first introduce the language.
Arabic is the most widely spoken Semitic language, and it is the natively spoken medium of communication for everyday life. However, the term “Arabic language” is frequently used to refer to Modern Standard Arabic (MSA) and its dialects as a whole. The media and education use MSA as their primary written language. Arabic is written from right to left using the 28-character Arabic alphabet. It is written in a cursive way, And the shape of each letter changes according to its position at the beginning of the word. middle, or end, but it does not contain capital letters. As for vowels, it can be said that They are two types: long letters and diacritics.
### [Bibliography : Modern Standard Arabic](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Modern_Standard_Arabic)
Although the Arabic language is considered to be in a situation similar to other languages, such as the English language, and there are many dialects in it, but the Arabic language has a different status because it has introduced other languages such as Persian, Berber, African, and Samaritan, and this is what made the Arabic language significantly different from its dialects
In Arabic texts there are two types of symbols:
Letters, diacritics, and additional symbols such as numbers and punctuation marks

![image](https://github.com/AbdelrahmanShahrour/Arabic-Summarization/blob/main/images/THE-ARABIC-ALPHABET-IN-DIFFERENT-POSITIONS_Q640.jpg)

![image](https://github.com/AbdelrahmanShahrour/Arabic-Summarization/blob/main/images/Various-diacritics-for-Arabic-characters.png)



### 1.3.2 - Arabic encoding
### 1.3.3 - Arabic language challenges

## [Bibliography : Arabic text summarization approaches: A comparison study](https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Hani-Alghanem/publication/348163080_Arabic_text_summarization_approaches_A_comparison_study/links/5ff187a6a6fdccdcb826718e/Arabic-text-summarization-approaches-A-comparison-study.pdf)

## 1.4 - Text Summarization
### 1.4.1 - Manual summarization
![image](https://github.com/AbdelrahmanShahrour/Arabic-Summarization/blob/main/images/man-summ.png)
### 1.4.2 - Automatic summarization
### 1.4.2.1 - Automatic text summarization aspects
### 1.4.2.2 - Automatic text summarization approaches
#### 1.4.2.2.1 - Extractive summarization
#### 1.4.2.2.2 - Abstractive summarization

## 1.5 - Related works
### 1.5.1 - Before the emergence of BERT
### 1.5.1 - Usage of BERT after its emergence

## 1.6 - Evaluation of summaries
## 1.7 - Conclusion

---
---
# 2 - Word embedding for text summarization
## 2.1 - Introduction
## 2.2 - Word embedding
### 2.2.1 - Traditional Word Embedding
### 2.2.2 - Static Word Embedding
### 2.2.3 - Contextualized Word Embedding
## 2.3 - Word embedding based on deep learning
### 2.3.1 - Artificial Neural Network (ANN)
### 2.3.2 - Deep Networks
### 2.3.3 - Sequence-to-sequence models
### 2.3.4 - Attention mechanism
### 2.3.5 - Transformers
### 2.3.6 - BERT
### 2.3.7 - BART
### 2.3.8 - PEGASUS
## 2.4 - Conclusion
---
---
# 3 - System design
## 3.1 - Introduction
## 3.2 - Arabic text preprocessing
## 3.3 - Text summarizer based on BART
### 3.3.1 - Model construction
### 3.3.1 - Prediction phase
## 3.4 - Text summarizer based on PEGASUS
## 3.5 - Conclusion
---
---
# 4 - Implementation and results

Commit message:

Update Arabic language and its challenges

README.md, after:

# Arabic Text Summarization

# 1 - Automatic text summarization
### 1.1 - Introduction
Over the beyond decades, the want to summarize files has routinely been regarded to boom because of the big mass of online texts consisting of news, scholarly articles, and so on. Assigning the summarization mission to a gadget has come to be a pressing want to extract and generate key statistics from the massive quantity of textual content available. Text summarization has been a place of excessive study for the beyond 50 years, specifically for generally used languages and comparatively easy grammar consisting of English. However, the Arabic language did now no longer get hold of an awful lot of interest because of its complexity grammatically and morphologically, etc. Arabic gives researchers and builders of the Natural Language Process (NLP) program enormous demanding situations because of its difficulties.

It is important to assess the effectiveness of the summaries generated via way of means of the gadget to decide the quantity of its reliability. There are methods, both human evaluation, that is, guide evaluation, which isn't a sensible approach withinside the case of big facts sets, or routinely the usage of the ROUGE metric, which is the only one that we undertake in this study.

## 1.2 - NLP
### 1.2.1 - Problem definition
We all know that machines cannot understand human languages such as speeches, texts, or even letters, so converting these texts into machine-understandable format has become a crucial goal to enable them to perform useful tasks. The domain of study that concentrates on enabling computers to intelligently process human languages is termed Natural Language Processing or NLP for short. It is a multi-speciality field that com- bines artificial intelligence, computing science, cognitive science, information processing, and linguistics. Natural language processing appeared to facilitate the work of the user and satisfy the desire to communicate with the computer in a natural language. 

NLP is divided into two parts: 

![image](https://github.com/AbdelrahmanShahrour/Arabic-Summarization/blob/main/images/38891nlg.png)

Natural Language Understanding (NLU) and Natural Language Generation (NLG). 

1.2.1.1 - Natural Language Understanding (NLU) is the part of natural language processing that helps computers understand and interpret natural language as human beings do. It is used for machine translation, question answering, and many others. 

1.2.1.2 - Natural Language Generation (NLG) is a component of natural language processing, which is the process of creating meaningful text in the form of a natural language from an internal representation. It can be considered the opposite of natural language understanding. NLG systems offer an important role in text summarization, machine translation, and dialogue systems.
## [Bibliography : Natural language processing: state of the art, current trends and challenges](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s11042-022-13428-4)
### 1.2.2 - Application of NLP
1.2.2.1 - Machine translation (MT): Natural language processing is at the heart of MT because it uses machines to automatically translate the natural language (from one language to another). The challenge of machine translation is not to translate word for word, but to use grammar and tense to preserve the true meaning of the sentence

1.2.2.2 - Question answering (QA): Question answering is one of the most important tasks in natural language processing (NLP), where a system takes a natural language question as input and returns a textual answer or answer paragraph.

1.2.2.3 - Sentiment Analysis (SA): The field of sentiment analysis also called opinion mining hasreceived a lot of focus from NLP. It is the field of analyzing people’s opinions, sentiments, evaluations, and reviews to determine the positive or negative orientation of user-generated texts about entities such as products, services, and others.
## [Bibliography : Sentiment Analysis and Opinion Mining ](https://www.cs.uic.edu/~liub/FBS/SentimentAnalysis-and-OpinionMining.pdf)

1.2.2.4 - Summarization: It is the process of conveying the most important information from a source (or sources) to produce a condensed version. This task took advantage of the NLP to reformulate the generated summary into a more coherent text.

## 1.3 - Arabic language and its challenges
The Arabic language is an important language as it is the language of the Holy "Al Qur’an Al Karem" and one of the official languages in the United Nations and 24 countries and as it is the mother tongue of more than 460 million people.
### 1.3.1 - Arabic language
Before getting into the depth of the Arabic language, we will first introduce the language.

Arabic is the most widely spoken Semitic language, and it is the natively spoken medium of communication for everyday life. However, the term “Arabic language” is frequently used to refer to Modern Standard Arabic (MSA) and its dialects as a whole. The media and education use MSA as their primary written language [34]. Arabic is written from right to left using the 28-character Arabic alphabet. It is written in a cursive way, And the shape of each letter changes according to its position at the beginning of the word. middle, or end, but it does not contain capital letters. As for vowels, it can be said that They are two types: long letters and diacritics.

Before getting into the depth of the Arabic language, we will first introduce the language.
Arabic is the most widely spoken Semitic language, and it is the natively spoken medium of communication for everyday life. However, the term “Arabic language” is frequently used to refer to Modern Standard Arabic (MSA) and its dialects as a whole. The media and education use MSA as their primary written language. Arabic is written from right to left using the 28-character Arabic alphabet. It is written in a cursive way, And the shape of each letter changes according to its position at the beginning of the word. middle, or end, but it does not contain capital letters. As for vowels, it can be said that They are two types: long letters and diacritics.
### [Bibliography : Modern Standard Arabic](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Modern_Standard_Arabic)
Although the Arabic language is considered to be in a situation similar to other languages, such as the English language, and there are many dialects in it, but the Arabic language has a different status because it has introduced other languages such as Persian, Berber, African, and Samaritan, and this is what made the Arabic language significantly different from its dialects
In Arabic texts there are two types of symbols:
Letters, diacritics, and additional symbols such as numbers and punctuation marks

![image](https://github.com/AbdelrahmanShahrour/Arabic-Summarization/blob/main/images/THE-ARABIC-ALPHABET-IN-DIFFERENT-POSITIONS_Q640.jpg)

![image](https://github.com/AbdelrahmanShahrour/Arabic-Summarization/blob/main/images/Various-diacritics-for-Arabic-characters.png)

A problem arises in writing the Arabic language with numbers, because most of them write it with English numbers

![image](https://github.com/AbdelrahmanShahrour/Arabic-Summarization/blob/main/images/png.png)

There are several problems in Arabic language texts that are not present other than in Arabic texts such as Twill and Folders and we will offer to solve them after **Arabic encoding** .
### 1.3.2 - Arabic encoding
### 1.3.3 - Arabic language challenges

## [Bibliography : Arabic text summarization approaches: A comparison study](https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Hani-Alghanem/publication/348163080_Arabic_text_summarization_approaches_A_comparison_study/links/5ff187a6a6fdccdcb826718e/Arabic-text-summarization-approaches-A-comparison-study.pdf)

## 1.4 - Text Summarization
### 1.4.1 - Manual summarization
![image](https://github.com/AbdelrahmanShahrour/Arabic-Summarization/blob/main/images/man-summ.png)
### 1.4.2 - Automatic summarization
### 1.4.2.1 - Automatic text summarization aspects
### 1.4.2.2 - Automatic text summarization approaches
#### 1.4.2.2.1 - Extractive summarization
#### 1.4.2.2.2 - Abstractive summarization

## 1.5 - Related works
### 1.5.1 - Before the emergence of BERT
### 1.5.1 - Usage of BERT after its emergence

## 1.6 - Evaluation of summaries
## 1.7 - Conclusion

---
---
# 2 - Word embedding for text summarization
## 2.1 - Introduction
## 2.2 - Word embedding
### 2.2.1 - Traditional Word Embedding
### 2.2.2 - Static Word Embedding
### 2.2.3 - Contextualized Word Embedding
## 2.3 - Word embedding based on deep learning
### 2.3.1 - Artificial Neural Network (ANN)
### 2.3.2 - Deep Networks
### 2.3.3 - Sequence-to-sequence models
### 2.3.4 - Attention mechanism
### 2.3.5 - Transformers
### 2.3.6 - BERT
### 2.3.7 - BART
### 2.3.8 - PEGASUS
## 2.4 - Conclusion
---
---
# 3 - System design
## 3.1 - Introduction
## 3.2 - Arabic text preprocessing
## 3.3 - Text summarizer based on BART
### 3.3.1 - Model construction
### 3.3.1 - Prediction phase
## 3.4 - Text summarizer based on PEGASUS
## 3.5 - Conclusion
---
---
# 4 - Implementation and results
